docs/docs/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: "Troubleshooting"
linkTitle: "Troubleshooting"
weight: 80
---

## Verifying operator status

Use the following checks to help you troubleshoot the Aiven Operator for Kubernetes.

### Checking the Pods

Verify that all the operator Pods are `READY`, and the `STATUS` is `Running`.

```shell
kubectl get pod -n aiven-operator-system 

NAME                                                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
aiven-operator-controller-manager-576d944499-ggttj   1/1     Running   0          12m
```

Verify that the `cert-manager` Pods are also running.

```shell
kubectl get pod -n cert-manager

NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-7dd5854bb4-85cpv              1/1     Running   0          76s
cert-manager-cainjector-64c949654c-n2z8l   1/1     Running   0          77s
cert-manager-webhook-6bdffc7c9d-47w6z      1/1     Running   0          76s
```

### Visualizing the operator logs

Use the following command to visualize all the logs from the operator.

```shell
kubectl logs -n aiven-operator-system -l control-plane=controller-manager
```

### Verifing the operator version

```shell
kubectl get pod -n aiven-operator-system -l control-plane=controller-manager -o jsonpath="{.items[0].spec.containers[0].image}"
```

## Known issues and limitations

We're always working to resolve problems that pop up in Aiven products. If your problem is listed below, we know about
it and are working to fix it. If your problem isn't listed below, report it as an issue.

### cert-manager

#### Issue

The following event appears on the operator Pod:

```shell
MountVolume.SetUp failed for volume "cert" : secret "webhook-server-cert" not found
```

#### Impact

You cannot run the operator.

#### Solution

Make sure that cert-manager is up and running.

```shell
kubectl get pod -n cert-manager

NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-7dd5854bb4-85cpv              1/1     Running   0          76s
cert-manager-cainjector-64c949654c-n2z8l   1/1     Running   0          77s
cert-manager-webhook-6bdffc7c9d-47w6z      1/1     Running   0          76s
```

Commit message:

doc: split console inputs and output examples

docs/docs/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: "Troubleshooting"
linkTitle: "Troubleshooting"
weight: 80
---

## Verifying operator status

Use the following checks to help you troubleshoot the Aiven Operator for Kubernetes.

### Checking the Pods

Verify that all the operator Pods are `READY`, and the `STATUS` is `Running`.

```shell
kubectl get pod -n aiven-operator-system
```

The output is similar to the following:

```{ .shell .no-copy }

NAME                                                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
aiven-operator-controller-manager-576d944499-ggttj   1/1     Running   0          12m
```

Verify that the `cert-manager` Pods are also running.

```shell
kubectl get pod -n cert-manager
```

The output has the status:

```{ .shell .no-copy }
NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-7dd5854bb4-85cpv              1/1     Running   0          76s
cert-manager-cainjector-64c949654c-n2z8l   1/1     Running   0          77s
cert-manager-webhook-6bdffc7c9d-47w6z      1/1     Running   0          76s
```

### Visualizing the operator logs

Use the following command to visualize all the logs from the operator.

```shell
kubectl logs -n aiven-operator-system -l control-plane=controller-manager
```

### Verifing the operator version

```shell
kubectl get pod -n aiven-operator-system -l control-plane=controller-manager -o jsonpath="{.items[0].spec.containers[0].image}"
```

## Known issues and limitations

We're always working to resolve problems that pop up in Aiven products. If your problem is listed below, we know about
it and are working to fix it. If your problem isn't listed below, report it as an issue.

### cert-manager

#### Issue

The following event appears on the operator Pod:

```{ .shell .no-copy }
MountVolume.SetUp failed for volume "cert" : secret "webhook-server-cert" not found
```

#### Impact

You cannot run the operator.

#### Solution

Make sure that cert-manager is up and running.

```shell
kubectl get pod -n cert-manager
```

The output shows the status of each cert-manager:

```{ .shell .no-copy }
NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-7dd5854bb4-85cpv              1/1     Running   0          76s
cert-manager-cainjector-64c949654c-n2z8l   1/1     Running   0          77s
cert-manager-webhook-6bdffc7c9d-47w6z      1/1     Running   0          76s
```
