docs/content/en/docs/troubleshooting/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Troubleshooting"
linkTitle: "Troubleshooting"
weight: 85
---
Finding yourself stuck with the Operator? Here are a few tips to find out what is happening.

## Check the Pods
Verify if all the Operator Pods are `READY` and the `STATUS` is `Running`.
```bash
$ kubectl get pod -n aiven-kubernetes-operator-system 

NAME                                                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
aiven-kubernetes-operator-controller-manager-576d944499-ggttj   1/1     Running   0          12m
```

Verify if the cert-manager Pods are also running:
```bash
$ kubectl get pod -n cert-manager

NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-7dd5854bb4-85cpv              1/1     Running   0          76s
cert-manager-cainjector-64c949654c-n2z8l   1/1     Running   0          77s
cert-manager-webhook-6bdffc7c9d-47w6z      1/1     Running   0          76s
```

## Visualize the Operator Logs
With the following command you can visualize all the logs from the Operator:
```bash
$ kubectl logs -n aiven-kubernetes-operator-system -l control-plane=controller-manager
```

## Verify the Operator Version
```bash
$ kubectl get pod -n aiven-kubernetes-operator-system -l control-plane=controller-manager -o jsonpath="{.items[0].spec.containers[0].image}"
```

## Known Errors
Here are some errors you might while deploying the Operator.

### cert-manager
If you see the following event on the Operator Pod:
```bash
MountVolume.SetUp failed for volume "cert" : secret "webhook-server-cert" not found
```

Make sure that cert-manager is up and running:
```bash
$ kubectl get pod -n cert-manager

NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-7dd5854bb4-85cpv              1/1     Running   0          76s
cert-manager-cainjector-64c949654c-n2z8l   1/1     Running   0          77s
cert-manager-webhook-6bdffc7c9d-47w6z      1/1     Running   0          76s
```

Commit message:

Added more structure, reworded known issue
Can we please add the impact for the known issue??

docs/content/en/docs/troubleshooting/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Troubleshooting"
linkTitle: "Troubleshooting"
weight: 85
---
## Verifying operator status
Use the following checks to help you troubleshoot the Aiven Kubernetes Operator.

### Checking the Pods
Verify that all the operator pods are `READY`, and the `STATUS` is `Running`.
```bash
$ kubectl get pod -n aiven-kubernetes-operator-system 

NAME                                                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
aiven-kubernetes-operator-controller-manager-576d944499-ggttj   1/1     Running   0          12m
```

Verify that the `cert-manager` pods are also running.
```bash
$ kubectl get pod -n cert-manager

NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-7dd5854bb4-85cpv              1/1     Running   0          76s
cert-manager-cainjector-64c949654c-n2z8l   1/1     Running   0          77s
cert-manager-webhook-6bdffc7c9d-47w6z      1/1     Running   0          76s
```

### Visualizing the operator logs
Use the following command to visualize all the logs from the operator.
```bash
$ kubectl logs -n aiven-kubernetes-operator-system -l control-plane=controller-manager
```

### Verifing the operator version
```bash
$ kubectl get pod -n aiven-kubernetes-operator-system -l control-plane=controller-manager -o jsonpath="{.items[0].spec.containers[0].image}"
```

## Known issues and limitations
We're always working to resolve problems that pop up in Aiven products. 
If your problem is listed below, we know about it and are working to fix it. If your problem isn't listed below, report it as an issue.

### cert-manager
#### Issue
The following event appears on the operator pod:
```bash
MountVolume.SetUp failed for volume "cert" : secret "webhook-server-cert" not found
```
#### Impact
(can we add impact??)

#### Solution
Make sure that cert-manager is up and running.
```bash
$ kubectl get pod -n cert-manager

NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-7dd5854bb4-85cpv              1/1     Running   0          76s
cert-manager-cainjector-64c949654c-n2z8l   1/1     Running   0          77s
cert-manager-webhook-6bdffc7c9d-47w6z      1/1     Running   0          76s
```
