docs/docs/resources/serviceuser.md, before:

---
title: "ServiceUser"
---

## Usage examples

!!! note "Prerequisites"
	* A Kubernetes cluster with the operator installed using [helm](../installation/helm.md), [kubectl](../installation/kubectl.md) or [kind](../contributing/developer-guide.md) (for local development).
	* A Kubernetes [Secret](../authentication.md) with an Aiven authentication token.

	
=== "custom_credentials"

    ```yaml linenums="1"
    # This example demonstrates how to use ServiceUser with connInfoSecretSource
    # for credential management. The ServiceUser will use a
    # predefined password from an existing secret.
    
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      name: predefined-credentials
    data:
      # MySecurePassword123! base64 encoded
      PASSWORD: TXlTZWN1cmVQYXNzd29yZDEyMyE= # gitleaks:allow
    
    ---
    
    apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
    kind: PostgreSQL
    metadata:
      name: my-postgresql
    spec:
      authSecretRef:
        name: aiven-token
        key: token
    
      project: aiven-project-name
      cloudName: google-europe-west1
      plan: startup-4
    
      connInfoSecretTarget:
        name: postgresql-connection
        prefix: PG_
        annotations:
          example: postgresql-service
        labels:
          service: postgresql
    
    ---
    
    apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
    kind: ServiceUser
    metadata:
      name: my-service-user
    spec:
      authSecretRef:
        name: aiven-token
        key: token
    
      connInfoSecretTarget:
        name: service-user-secret
        prefix: MY_SECRET_PREFIX_
        annotations:
          foo: bar
        labels:
          baz: egg
    
      # Use existing secret for credential management
      connInfoSecretSource:
        name: predefined-credentials
        # namespace: my-namespace  # Optional: defaults to same namespace as ServiceUser
        passwordKey: PASSWORD
    
      project: aiven-project-name
      serviceName: my-postgresql
    ```

	
=== "example"

    ```yaml linenums="1"
    apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
    kind: ServiceUser
    metadata:
      name: my-service-user
    spec:
      authSecretRef:
        name: aiven-token
        key: token
    
      connInfoSecretTarget:
        name: service-user-secret
        prefix: MY_SECRET_PREFIX_
        annotations:
          foo: bar
        labels:
          baz: egg
    
      # Optional: Use existing secret for credential management
      # connInfoSecretSource:
      #   name: predefined-credentials
      #   namespace: my-namespace  # Optional: defaults to same namespace as ServiceUser
      #   passwordKey: PASSWORD
    
      project: aiven-project-name
      serviceName: my-service-name
    ```

Apply the resource with:

```shell
kubectl apply -f example.yaml
```

Verify the newly created `ServiceUser`:

```shell
kubectl get serviceusers my-service-user
```

The output is similar to the following:
```shell
Name               Service Name     Project               
my-service-user    my-postgresql    aiven-project-name    
```

To view the details of the `Secret`, use the following command:
```shell
kubectl describe secret service-user-secret
```

You can use the [jq](https://github.com/jqlang/jq) to quickly decode the `Secret`:

```shell
kubectl get secret service-user-secret -o json | jq '.data | map_values(@base64d)'
```

The output is similar to the following:

```{ .json .no-copy }
{
	"SERVICEUSER_HOST": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_PORT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_USERNAME": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_PASSWORD": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_CA_CERT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_CERT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_KEY": "<secret>",
}
```

---

## ServiceUser {: #ServiceUser }

ServiceUser is the Schema for the serviceusers API.
Creates a service user for accessing Aiven services. The ServiceUser resource name becomes the username in Aiven.
Built-in users like `avnadmin` cannot be deleted but their passwords can be modified using connInfoSecretSource.

!!! Info "Exposes secret keys"

    `SERVICEUSER_HOST`, `SERVICEUSER_PORT`, `SERVICEUSER_USERNAME`, `SERVICEUSER_PASSWORD`, `SERVICEUSER_CA_CERT`, `SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_CERT`, `SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_KEY`.

**Required**

- [`apiVersion`](#apiVersion-property){: name='apiVersion-property'} (string). Value `aiven.io/v1alpha1`.
- [`kind`](#kind-property){: name='kind-property'} (string). Value `ServiceUser`.
- [`metadata`](#metadata-property){: name='metadata-property'} (object). Data that identifies the object, including a `name` string and optional `namespace`.
- [`spec`](#spec-property){: name='spec-property'} (object). ServiceUserSpec defines the desired state of ServiceUser. See below for [nested schema](#spec).

## spec {: #spec }

_Appears on [`ServiceUser`](#ServiceUser)._

ServiceUserSpec defines the desired state of ServiceUser.

**Required**

- [`project`](#spec.project-property){: name='spec.project-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Identifies the project this resource belongs to.
- [`serviceName`](#spec.serviceName-property){: name='spec.serviceName-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-z][-a-z0-9]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Specifies the name of the service that this resource belongs to.

**Optional**

- [`authSecretRef`](#spec.authSecretRef-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef-property'} (object). Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret. See below for [nested schema](#spec.authSecretRef).
- [`authentication`](#spec.authentication-property){: name='spec.authentication-property'} (string, Enum: `caching_sha2_password`, `mysql_native_password`). Authentication details.
- [`connInfoSecretSource`](#spec.connInfoSecretSource-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretSource-property'} (object). ConnInfoSecretSource allows specifying an existing secret to read credentials from.
    The password from this secret will be used to modify the service user credentials.
    Password must be 8-256 characters long as per Aiven API requirements.
    This can be used to set passwords for new users or modify passwords for existing users (e.g., avnadmin).
    The source secret is watched for changes, and reconciliation will be automatically triggered
    when the secret data is updated. See below for [nested schema](#spec.connInfoSecretSource).
- [`connInfoSecretTarget`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property'} (object). Secret configuration. See below for [nested schema](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget).
- [`connInfoSecretTargetDisabled`](#spec.connInfoSecretTargetDisabled-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTargetDisabled-property'} (boolean, Immutable). When true, the secret containing connection information will not be created, defaults to false. This field cannot be changed after resource creation.

## authSecretRef {: #spec.authSecretRef }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret.

**Required**

- [`key`](#spec.authSecretRef.key-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.key-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
- [`name`](#spec.authSecretRef.name-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).

## connInfoSecretSource {: #spec.connInfoSecretSource }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

ConnInfoSecretSource allows specifying an existing secret to read credentials from.
The password from this secret will be used to modify the service user credentials.
Password must be 8-256 characters long as per Aiven API requirements.
This can be used to set passwords for new users or modify passwords for existing users (e.g., avnadmin).
The source secret is watched for changes, and reconciliation will be automatically triggered
when the secret data is updated.

**Required**

- [`name`](#spec.connInfoSecretSource.name-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretSource.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1). Name of the secret resource to read connection parameters from.
- [`passwordKey`](#spec.connInfoSecretSource.passwordKey-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretSource.passwordKey-property'} (string, MinLength: 1). Key in the secret containing the password to use for authentication.

**Optional**

- [`namespace`](#spec.connInfoSecretSource.namespace-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretSource.namespace-property'} (string). Namespace of the source secret. If not specified, defaults to the same namespace as the resource.

## connInfoSecretTarget {: #spec.connInfoSecretTarget }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Secret configuration.

**Required**

- [`name`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property'} (string, Immutable). Name of the secret resource to be created. By default, it is equal to the resource name.

**Optional**

- [`annotations`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Annotations added to the secret.
- [`labels`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Labels added to the secret.
- [`prefix`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property'} (string). Prefix for the secret's keys.
    Added "as is" without any transformations.
    By default, is equal to the kind name in uppercase + underscore, e.g. `KAFKA_`, `REDIS_`, etc.

Commit message:

docs: add "required permissions" section
Resolves NEX-2265.

Adds "Required permissions" section on resource pages.

docs/docs/resources/serviceuser.md, after:

---
title: "ServiceUser"
---

## Prerequisites
	
* A Kubernetes cluster with the operator installed using [helm](../installation/helm.md), [kubectl](../installation/kubectl.md) or [kind](../contributing/developer-guide.md) (for local development).
* A Kubernetes [Secret](../authentication.md) with an Aiven authentication token.

### Required permissions
	
To create and manage this resource, you must have the appropriate [roles or permissions](https://aiven.io/docs/platform/concepts/permissions).
See the [Aiven documentation](https://aiven.io/docs/platform/howto/manage-permissions) for details on managing permissions.
For more precise access control, use permissions instead of roles.

**Permissions**

All of these permissions are required to create and manage this resource.

- `organization:projects:write`
- `project:services:read`
- `service:users:write`

## Usage examples

	
=== "custom_credentials"

    ```yaml linenums="1"
    # This example demonstrates how to use ServiceUser with connInfoSecretSource
    # for credential management. The ServiceUser will use a
    # predefined password from an existing secret.
    
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      name: predefined-credentials
    data:
      # MySecurePassword123! base64 encoded
      PASSWORD: TXlTZWN1cmVQYXNzd29yZDEyMyE= # gitleaks:allow
    
    ---
    
    apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
    kind: PostgreSQL
    metadata:
      name: my-postgresql
    spec:
      authSecretRef:
        name: aiven-token
        key: token
    
      project: aiven-project-name
      cloudName: google-europe-west1
      plan: startup-4
    
      connInfoSecretTarget:
        name: postgresql-connection
        prefix: PG_
        annotations:
          example: postgresql-service
        labels:
          service: postgresql
    
    ---
    
    apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
    kind: ServiceUser
    metadata:
      name: my-service-user
    spec:
      authSecretRef:
        name: aiven-token
        key: token
    
      connInfoSecretTarget:
        name: service-user-secret
        prefix: MY_SECRET_PREFIX_
        annotations:
          foo: bar
        labels:
          baz: egg
    
      # Use existing secret for credential management
      connInfoSecretSource:
        name: predefined-credentials
        # namespace: my-namespace  # Optional: defaults to same namespace as ServiceUser
        passwordKey: PASSWORD
    
      project: aiven-project-name
      serviceName: my-postgresql
    ```

	
=== "example"

    ```yaml linenums="1"
    apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
    kind: ServiceUser
    metadata:
      name: my-service-user
    spec:
      authSecretRef:
        name: aiven-token
        key: token
    
      connInfoSecretTarget:
        name: service-user-secret
        prefix: MY_SECRET_PREFIX_
        annotations:
          foo: bar
        labels:
          baz: egg
    
      # Optional: Use existing secret for credential management
      # connInfoSecretSource:
      #   name: predefined-credentials
      #   namespace: my-namespace  # Optional: defaults to same namespace as ServiceUser
      #   passwordKey: PASSWORD
    
      project: aiven-project-name
      serviceName: my-service-name
    ```

Apply the resource with:

```shell
kubectl apply -f example.yaml
```

Verify the newly created `ServiceUser`:

```shell
kubectl get serviceusers my-service-user
```

The output is similar to the following:
```shell
Name               Service Name     Project               
my-service-user    my-postgresql    aiven-project-name    
```

To view the details of the `Secret`, use the following command:
```shell
kubectl describe secret service-user-secret
```

You can use the [jq](https://github.com/jqlang/jq) to quickly decode the `Secret`:

```shell
kubectl get secret service-user-secret -o json | jq '.data | map_values(@base64d)'
```

The output is similar to the following:

```{ .json .no-copy }
{
	"SERVICEUSER_HOST": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_PORT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_USERNAME": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_PASSWORD": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_CA_CERT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_CERT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_KEY": "<secret>",
}
```

---

## ServiceUser {: #ServiceUser }

ServiceUser is the Schema for the serviceusers API.
Creates a service user for accessing Aiven services. The ServiceUser resource name becomes the username in Aiven.
Built-in users like `avnadmin` cannot be deleted but their passwords can be modified using connInfoSecretSource.

!!! Info "Exposes secret keys"

    `SERVICEUSER_HOST`, `SERVICEUSER_PORT`, `SERVICEUSER_USERNAME`, `SERVICEUSER_PASSWORD`, `SERVICEUSER_CA_CERT`, `SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_CERT`, `SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_KEY`.

**Required**

- [`apiVersion`](#apiVersion-property){: name='apiVersion-property'} (string). Value `aiven.io/v1alpha1`.
- [`kind`](#kind-property){: name='kind-property'} (string). Value `ServiceUser`.
- [`metadata`](#metadata-property){: name='metadata-property'} (object). Data that identifies the object, including a `name` string and optional `namespace`.
- [`spec`](#spec-property){: name='spec-property'} (object). ServiceUserSpec defines the desired state of ServiceUser. See below for [nested schema](#spec).

## spec {: #spec }

_Appears on [`ServiceUser`](#ServiceUser)._

ServiceUserSpec defines the desired state of ServiceUser.

**Required**

- [`project`](#spec.project-property){: name='spec.project-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Identifies the project this resource belongs to.
- [`serviceName`](#spec.serviceName-property){: name='spec.serviceName-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-z][-a-z0-9]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Specifies the name of the service that this resource belongs to.

**Optional**

- [`authSecretRef`](#spec.authSecretRef-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef-property'} (object). Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret. See below for [nested schema](#spec.authSecretRef).
- [`authentication`](#spec.authentication-property){: name='spec.authentication-property'} (string, Enum: `caching_sha2_password`, `mysql_native_password`). Authentication details.
- [`connInfoSecretSource`](#spec.connInfoSecretSource-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretSource-property'} (object). ConnInfoSecretSource allows specifying an existing secret to read credentials from.
    The password from this secret will be used to modify the service user credentials.
    Password must be 8-256 characters long as per Aiven API requirements.
    This can be used to set passwords for new users or modify passwords for existing users (e.g., avnadmin).
    The source secret is watched for changes, and reconciliation will be automatically triggered
    when the secret data is updated. See below for [nested schema](#spec.connInfoSecretSource).
- [`connInfoSecretTarget`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property'} (object). Secret configuration. See below for [nested schema](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget).
- [`connInfoSecretTargetDisabled`](#spec.connInfoSecretTargetDisabled-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTargetDisabled-property'} (boolean, Immutable). When true, the secret containing connection information will not be created, defaults to false. This field cannot be changed after resource creation.

## authSecretRef {: #spec.authSecretRef }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret.

**Required**

- [`key`](#spec.authSecretRef.key-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.key-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
- [`name`](#spec.authSecretRef.name-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).

## connInfoSecretSource {: #spec.connInfoSecretSource }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

ConnInfoSecretSource allows specifying an existing secret to read credentials from.
The password from this secret will be used to modify the service user credentials.
Password must be 8-256 characters long as per Aiven API requirements.
This can be used to set passwords for new users or modify passwords for existing users (e.g., avnadmin).
The source secret is watched for changes, and reconciliation will be automatically triggered
when the secret data is updated.

**Required**

- [`name`](#spec.connInfoSecretSource.name-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretSource.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1). Name of the secret resource to read connection parameters from.
- [`passwordKey`](#spec.connInfoSecretSource.passwordKey-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretSource.passwordKey-property'} (string, MinLength: 1). Key in the secret containing the password to use for authentication.

**Optional**

- [`namespace`](#spec.connInfoSecretSource.namespace-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretSource.namespace-property'} (string). Namespace of the source secret. If not specified, defaults to the same namespace as the resource.

## connInfoSecretTarget {: #spec.connInfoSecretTarget }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Secret configuration.

**Required**

- [`name`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property'} (string, Immutable). Name of the secret resource to be created. By default, it is equal to the resource name.

**Optional**

- [`annotations`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Annotations added to the secret.
- [`labels`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Labels added to the secret.
- [`prefix`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property'} (string). Prefix for the secret's keys.
    Added "as is" without any transformations.
    By default, is equal to the kind name in uppercase + underscore, e.g. `KAFKA_`, `REDIS_`, etc.
