docs/docs/contributing/index.md, before:

---
title: "Guidelines"
linkTitle: "Guidelines"
weight: 85
---

# Contributing Guidelines

The Aiven Operator for Kubernetes project accepts contributions via GitHub pull requests. This document outlines the process
to help get your contribution accepted.

Please see also the Aiven Operator for Kubernetes [Developer Guide](./developer-guide).

### Support Channels

This project offers support through GitHub issues and can be
filed [here](https://github.com/aiven/aiven-operator/issues). Moreover, GitHub issues are used as the primary
method for tracking anything to do with the Aiven Operator for Kubernetes project.

### Pull Request Process

1. Ensure any install or build dependencies are removed before the end of the layer when doing a build.
2. Increase the version numbers in any examples files and the README.md and in corresponding file in he /docs folder to
   the new version that this Pull Request would represent. The versioning scheme we use is [SemVer](http://semver.org/).
3. You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of two other developers, or if you do not have
   permission to do that, you may request the second reviewer to merge it for you.

## Code of Conduct

### Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to making
participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size,
disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, nationality, personal appearance, race,
religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

### Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment include:

* Using welcoming and inclusive language
* Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
* Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
* Focusing on what is best for the community
* Showing empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

* The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or advances
* Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
* Public or private harassment
* Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic address, without explicit permission
* Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a professional setting

### Our Responsibilities

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable behavior and are expected to take
appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits,
issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or permanently any
contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.

### Scope

This Code of Conduct applies both within project spaces and in public spaces when an individual is representing the
project or its community. Examples of representing a project or community include using an official project e-mail
address, posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed representative at an online or offline
event. Representation of a project may be further defined and clarified by project maintainers.

### Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported by contacting the project team
at <opensource@aiven.io>. All complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that is deemed
necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. The project team is obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard to
the reporter of an incident. Further details of specific enforcement policies may be posted separately.

Project maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good faith may face temporary or permanent
repercussions as determined by other members of the project's leadership.

Commit message:

chore: add commit lint support

docs/docs/contributing/index.md, after:

---
title: "Guidelines"
linkTitle: "Guidelines"
weight: 85
---

# Contributing Guidelines

The Aiven Operator for Kubernetes project accepts contributions via GitHub pull requests. This document outlines the process
to help get your contribution accepted.

Please see also the Aiven Operator for Kubernetes [Developer Guide](./developer-guide).

### Support Channels

This project offers support through GitHub issues and can be
filed [here](https://github.com/aiven/aiven-operator/issues). Moreover, GitHub issues are used as the primary
method for tracking anything to do with the Aiven Operator for Kubernetes project.

### Pull Request Process

1. Ensure any install or build dependencies are removed before the end of the layer when doing a build.
2. Increase the version numbers in any examples files and the README.md and in corresponding file in he /docs folder to
   the new version that this Pull Request would represent. The versioning scheme we use is [SemVer](http://semver.org/).
3. You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of two other developers, or if you do not have
   permission to do that, you may request the second reviewer to merge it for you.

## Code of Conduct

### Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to making
participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size,
disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, nationality, personal appearance, race,
religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

### Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment include:

* Using welcoming and inclusive language
* Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
* Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
* Focusing on what is best for the community
* Showing empathy towards other community members

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

* The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or advances
* Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
* Public or private harassment
* Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic address, without explicit permission
* Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a professional setting

### Commit Messages

This project adheres to the [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification.
Please, make sure that your commit messages follow that specification.

### Our Responsibilities

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable behavior and are expected to take
appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits,
issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or permanently any
contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.

### Scope

This Code of Conduct applies both within project spaces and in public spaces when an individual is representing the
project or its community. Examples of representing a project or community include using an official project e-mail
address, posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed representative at an online or offline
event. Representation of a project may be further defined and clarified by project maintainers.

### Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported by contacting the project team
at <opensource@aiven.io>. All complaints will be reviewed and investigated and will result in a response that is deemed
necessary and appropriate to the circumstances. The project team is obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard to
the reporter of an incident. Further details of specific enforcement policies may be posted separately.

Project maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good faith may face temporary or permanent
repercussions as determined by other members of the project's leadership.
