docs/docs/api-reference/connectionpool.md, before:

---
title: "ConnectionPool"
---

## Usage example

```yaml
apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
kind: ConnectionPool
metadata:
  name: my-connection-pool
spec:
  authSecretRef:
    name: aiven-token
    key: token

  connInfoSecretTarget:
    name: connection-pool-secret
    prefix: MY_SECRET_PREFIX_
    annotations:
      foo: bar
    labels:
      baz: egg

  project: aiven-project-name
  serviceName: google-europe-west1
  databaseName: my-db
  username: my-user
  poolMode: transaction
  poolSize: 25
```

## ConnectionPool {: #ConnectionPool }

ConnectionPool is the Schema for the connectionpools API.

**Required**

- [`apiVersion`](#apiVersion-property){: name='apiVersion-property'} (string). Value `aiven.io/v1alpha1`.
- [`kind`](#kind-property){: name='kind-property'} (string). Value `ConnectionPool`.
- [`metadata`](#metadata-property){: name='metadata-property'} (object). Data that identifies the object, including a `name` string and optional `namespace`.
- [`spec`](#spec-property){: name='spec-property'} (object). ConnectionPoolSpec defines the desired state of ConnectionPool. See below for [nested schema](#spec).

## spec {: #spec }

_Appears on [`ConnectionPool`](#ConnectionPool)._

ConnectionPoolSpec defines the desired state of ConnectionPool.

**Required**

- [`databaseName`](#spec.databaseName-property){: name='spec.databaseName-property'} (string, MaxLength: 40). Name of the database the pool connects to.
- [`project`](#spec.project-property){: name='spec.project-property'} (string, MaxLength: 63, Format: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]*$`). Target project.
- [`serviceName`](#spec.serviceName-property){: name='spec.serviceName-property'} (string, MaxLength: 63). Service name.
- [`username`](#spec.username-property){: name='spec.username-property'} (string, MaxLength: 64). Name of the service user used to connect to the database.

**Optional**

- [`authSecretRef`](#spec.authSecretRef-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef-property'} (object). Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret. See below for [nested schema](#spec.authSecretRef).
- [`connInfoSecretTarget`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property'} (object). Information regarding secret creation. Exposed keys: `CONNECTIONPOOL_NAME`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_HOST`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_PORT`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_DATABASE`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_USER`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_PASSWORD`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_SSLMODE`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_DATABASE_URI`. See below for [nested schema](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget).
- [`poolMode`](#spec.poolMode-property){: name='spec.poolMode-property'} (string, Enum: `session`, `transaction`, `statement`). Mode the pool operates in (session, transaction, statement).
- [`poolSize`](#spec.poolSize-property){: name='spec.poolSize-property'} (integer). Number of connections the pool may create towards the backend server.

## authSecretRef {: #spec.authSecretRef }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret.

**Required**

- [`key`](#spec.authSecretRef.key-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.key-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
- [`name`](#spec.authSecretRef.name-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).

## connInfoSecretTarget {: #spec.connInfoSecretTarget }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Information regarding secret creation. Exposed keys: `CONNECTIONPOOL_NAME`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_HOST`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_PORT`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_DATABASE`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_USER`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_PASSWORD`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_SSLMODE`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_DATABASE_URI`.

**Required**

- [`name`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property'} (string). Name of the secret resource to be created. By default, is equal to the resource name.

**Optional**

- [`annotations`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Annotations added to the secret.
- [`labels`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Labels added to the secret.
- [`prefix`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property'} (string). Prefix for the secret's keys. Added "as is" without any transformations. By default, is equal to the kind name in uppercase + underscore, e.g. `KAFKA_`, `REDIS_`, etc.

Commit message:

feat: add ability to disable connection info secret creation (#599)

docs/docs/api-reference/connectionpool.md, after:

---
title: "ConnectionPool"
---

## Usage example

```yaml
apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
kind: ConnectionPool
metadata:
  name: my-connection-pool
spec:
  authSecretRef:
    name: aiven-token
    key: token

  connInfoSecretTarget:
    name: connection-pool-secret
    prefix: MY_SECRET_PREFIX_
    annotations:
      foo: bar
    labels:
      baz: egg

  project: aiven-project-name
  serviceName: google-europe-west1
  databaseName: my-db
  username: my-user
  poolMode: transaction
  poolSize: 25
```

## ConnectionPool {: #ConnectionPool }

ConnectionPool is the Schema for the connectionpools API.

**Required**

- [`apiVersion`](#apiVersion-property){: name='apiVersion-property'} (string). Value `aiven.io/v1alpha1`.
- [`kind`](#kind-property){: name='kind-property'} (string). Value `ConnectionPool`.
- [`metadata`](#metadata-property){: name='metadata-property'} (object). Data that identifies the object, including a `name` string and optional `namespace`.
- [`spec`](#spec-property){: name='spec-property'} (object). ConnectionPoolSpec defines the desired state of ConnectionPool. See below for [nested schema](#spec).

## spec {: #spec }

_Appears on [`ConnectionPool`](#ConnectionPool)._

ConnectionPoolSpec defines the desired state of ConnectionPool.

**Required**

- [`databaseName`](#spec.databaseName-property){: name='spec.databaseName-property'} (string, MaxLength: 40). Name of the database the pool connects to.
- [`project`](#spec.project-property){: name='spec.project-property'} (string, MaxLength: 63, Format: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]*$`). Target project.
- [`serviceName`](#spec.serviceName-property){: name='spec.serviceName-property'} (string, MaxLength: 63). Service name.
- [`username`](#spec.username-property){: name='spec.username-property'} (string, MaxLength: 64). Name of the service user used to connect to the database.

**Optional**

- [`authSecretRef`](#spec.authSecretRef-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef-property'} (object). Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret. See below for [nested schema](#spec.authSecretRef).
- [`connInfoSecretTarget`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property'} (object). Information regarding secret creation. Exposed keys: `CONNECTIONPOOL_NAME`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_HOST`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_PORT`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_DATABASE`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_USER`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_PASSWORD`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_SSLMODE`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_DATABASE_URI`. See below for [nested schema](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget).
- [`connInfoSecretTargetDisabled`](#spec.connInfoSecretTargetDisabled-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTargetDisabled-property'} (boolean, Immutable). When true, the secret containing connection information will not be created, defaults to false. This field cannot be changed after resource creation.
- [`poolMode`](#spec.poolMode-property){: name='spec.poolMode-property'} (string, Enum: `session`, `transaction`, `statement`). Mode the pool operates in (session, transaction, statement).
- [`poolSize`](#spec.poolSize-property){: name='spec.poolSize-property'} (integer). Number of connections the pool may create towards the backend server.

## authSecretRef {: #spec.authSecretRef }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret.

**Required**

- [`key`](#spec.authSecretRef.key-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.key-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
- [`name`](#spec.authSecretRef.name-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).

## connInfoSecretTarget {: #spec.connInfoSecretTarget }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Information regarding secret creation. Exposed keys: `CONNECTIONPOOL_NAME`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_HOST`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_PORT`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_DATABASE`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_USER`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_PASSWORD`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_SSLMODE`, `CONNECTIONPOOL_DATABASE_URI`.

**Required**

- [`name`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property'} (string). Name of the secret resource to be created. By default, is equal to the resource name.

**Optional**

- [`annotations`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Annotations added to the secret.
- [`labels`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Labels added to the secret.
- [`prefix`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property'} (string). Prefix for the secret's keys. Added "as is" without any transformations. By default, is equal to the kind name in uppercase + underscore, e.g. `KAFKA_`, `REDIS_`, etc.
