docs/docs/api-reference/kafkaschemaregistryacl.md, before:

---
title: "KafkaSchemaRegistryACL"
---

## Usage example

??? example 
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
    kind: KafkaSchemaRegistryACL
    metadata:
      name: my-kafka-schema-registry-acl
    spec:
      authSecretRef:
        name: aiven-token
        key: token
    
      project: aiven-project-name
      serviceName: my-kafka
      resource: Subject:my-topic
      username: my-user
      permission: schema_registry_read
    ```

Apply the resource with:

```shell
kubectl apply -f example.yaml
```

Verify the newly created `KafkaSchemaRegistryACL`:

```shell
kubectl get kafkaschemaregistryacls my-kafka-schema-registry-acl
```

The output is similar to the following:
```shell
Name                            Project               Service Name    Resource            Username    State      
my-kafka-schema-registry-acl    aiven-project-name    my-kafka        Subject:my-topic    my-user     RUNNING    
```

## KafkaSchemaRegistryACL {: #KafkaSchemaRegistryACL }

KafkaSchemaRegistryACL is the Schema for the kafkaschemaregistryacls API.

**Required**

- [`apiVersion`](#apiVersion-property){: name='apiVersion-property'} (string). Value `aiven.io/v1alpha1`.
- [`kind`](#kind-property){: name='kind-property'} (string). Value `KafkaSchemaRegistryACL`.
- [`metadata`](#metadata-property){: name='metadata-property'} (object). Data that identifies the object, including a `name` string and optional `namespace`.
- [`spec`](#spec-property){: name='spec-property'} (object). KafkaSchemaRegistryACLSpec defines the desired state of KafkaSchemaRegistryACL. See below for [nested schema](#spec).

## spec {: #spec }

_Appears on [`KafkaSchemaRegistryACL`](#KafkaSchemaRegistryACL)._

KafkaSchemaRegistryACLSpec defines the desired state of KafkaSchemaRegistryACL.

**Required**

- [`permission`](#spec.permission-property){: name='spec.permission-property'} (string, Enum: `schema_registry_read`, `schema_registry_write`, Immutable).
- [`project`](#spec.project-property){: name='spec.project-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Identifies the project this resource belongs to.
- [`resource`](#spec.resource-property){: name='spec.resource-property'} (string, Immutable, MaxLength: 249). Resource name pattern for the Schema Registry ACL entry.
- [`serviceName`](#spec.serviceName-property){: name='spec.serviceName-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-z][-a-z0-9]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Specifies the name of the service that this resource belongs to.
- [`username`](#spec.username-property){: name='spec.username-property'} (string, Immutable, MaxLength: 64). Username pattern for the ACL entry.

**Optional**

- [`authSecretRef`](#spec.authSecretRef-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef-property'} (object). Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret. See below for [nested schema](#spec.authSecretRef).

## authSecretRef {: #spec.authSecretRef }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret.

**Required**

- [`key`](#spec.authSecretRef.key-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.key-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
- [`name`](#spec.authSecretRef.name-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).

Commit message:

docs: add secret dependency warning (#779)

docs/docs/api-reference/kafkaschemaregistryacl.md, after:

---
title: "KafkaSchemaRegistryACL"
---

## Usage example

??? example 
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
    kind: KafkaSchemaRegistryACL
    metadata:
      name: my-kafka-schema-registry-acl
    spec:
      authSecretRef:
        name: aiven-token
        key: token
    
      project: aiven-project-name
      serviceName: my-kafka
      resource: Subject:my-topic
      username: my-user
      permission: schema_registry_read
    ```

!!! info
	To create this resource, a `Secret` containing Aiven token must be [created](/aiven-operator/authentication.html) first.

Apply the resource with:

```shell
kubectl apply -f example.yaml
```

Verify the newly created `KafkaSchemaRegistryACL`:

```shell
kubectl get kafkaschemaregistryacls my-kafka-schema-registry-acl
```

The output is similar to the following:
```shell
Name                            Project               Service Name    Resource            Username    State      
my-kafka-schema-registry-acl    aiven-project-name    my-kafka        Subject:my-topic    my-user     RUNNING    
```

## KafkaSchemaRegistryACL {: #KafkaSchemaRegistryACL }

KafkaSchemaRegistryACL is the Schema for the kafkaschemaregistryacls API.

**Required**

- [`apiVersion`](#apiVersion-property){: name='apiVersion-property'} (string). Value `aiven.io/v1alpha1`.
- [`kind`](#kind-property){: name='kind-property'} (string). Value `KafkaSchemaRegistryACL`.
- [`metadata`](#metadata-property){: name='metadata-property'} (object). Data that identifies the object, including a `name` string and optional `namespace`.
- [`spec`](#spec-property){: name='spec-property'} (object). KafkaSchemaRegistryACLSpec defines the desired state of KafkaSchemaRegistryACL. See below for [nested schema](#spec).

## spec {: #spec }

_Appears on [`KafkaSchemaRegistryACL`](#KafkaSchemaRegistryACL)._

KafkaSchemaRegistryACLSpec defines the desired state of KafkaSchemaRegistryACL.

**Required**

- [`permission`](#spec.permission-property){: name='spec.permission-property'} (string, Enum: `schema_registry_read`, `schema_registry_write`, Immutable).
- [`project`](#spec.project-property){: name='spec.project-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Identifies the project this resource belongs to.
- [`resource`](#spec.resource-property){: name='spec.resource-property'} (string, Immutable, MaxLength: 249). Resource name pattern for the Schema Registry ACL entry.
- [`serviceName`](#spec.serviceName-property){: name='spec.serviceName-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-z][-a-z0-9]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Specifies the name of the service that this resource belongs to.
- [`username`](#spec.username-property){: name='spec.username-property'} (string, Immutable, MaxLength: 64). Username pattern for the ACL entry.

**Optional**

- [`authSecretRef`](#spec.authSecretRef-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef-property'} (object). Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret. See below for [nested schema](#spec.authSecretRef).

## authSecretRef {: #spec.authSecretRef }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret.

**Required**

- [`key`](#spec.authSecretRef.key-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.key-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
- [`name`](#spec.authSecretRef.name-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
