docs/docs/api-reference/kafkaacl.md, before:

---
title: "KafkaACL"
---

## Usage example

```yaml
apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
kind: KafkaACL
metadata:
  name: my-kafka-acl
spec:
  authSecretRef:
    name: aiven-token
    key: token

  project: my-aiven-project
  serviceName: my-kafka
  topic: my-topic
  username: my-user
  permission: admin
```

## KafkaACL {: #KafkaACL }

KafkaACL is the Schema for the kafkaacls API.

**Required**

- [`apiVersion`](#apiVersion-property){: name='apiVersion-property'} (string). Value `aiven.io/v1alpha1`.
- [`kind`](#kind-property){: name='kind-property'} (string). Value `KafkaACL`.
- [`metadata`](#metadata-property){: name='metadata-property'} (object). Data that identifies the object, including a `name` string and optional `namespace`.
- [`spec`](#spec-property){: name='spec-property'} (object). KafkaACLSpec defines the desired state of KafkaACL. See below for [nested schema](#spec).

## spec {: #spec }

_Appears on [`KafkaACL`](#KafkaACL)._

KafkaACLSpec defines the desired state of KafkaACL.

**Required**

- [`permission`](#spec.permission-property){: name='spec.permission-property'} (string, Enum: `admin`, `read`, `readwrite`, `write`). Kafka permission to grant (admin, read, readwrite, write).
- [`project`](#spec.project-property){: name='spec.project-property'} (string, MaxLength: 63, Format: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]*$`). Project to link the Kafka ACL to.
- [`serviceName`](#spec.serviceName-property){: name='spec.serviceName-property'} (string, MaxLength: 63). Service to link the Kafka ACL to.
- [`topic`](#spec.topic-property){: name='spec.topic-property'} (string). Topic name pattern for the ACL entry.
- [`username`](#spec.username-property){: name='spec.username-property'} (string). Username pattern for the ACL entry.

**Optional**

- [`authSecretRef`](#spec.authSecretRef-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef-property'} (object). Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret. See below for [nested schema](#spec.authSecretRef).

## authSecretRef {: #spec.authSecretRef }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret.

**Required**

- [`key`](#spec.authSecretRef.key-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.key-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
- [`name`](#spec.authSecretRef.name-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).

Commit message:

refactor: share project and service fields
- Fixes project regex pattern
- ServceName and Project fields are shared across all types
- Both fields are marked as immutable

docs/docs/api-reference/kafkaacl.md, after:

---
title: "KafkaACL"
---

## Usage example

```yaml
apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
kind: KafkaACL
metadata:
  name: my-kafka-acl
spec:
  authSecretRef:
    name: aiven-token
    key: token

  project: my-aiven-project
  serviceName: my-kafka
  topic: my-topic
  username: my-user
  permission: admin
```

## KafkaACL {: #KafkaACL }

KafkaACL is the Schema for the kafkaacls API.

**Required**

- [`apiVersion`](#apiVersion-property){: name='apiVersion-property'} (string). Value `aiven.io/v1alpha1`.
- [`kind`](#kind-property){: name='kind-property'} (string). Value `KafkaACL`.
- [`metadata`](#metadata-property){: name='metadata-property'} (object). Data that identifies the object, including a `name` string and optional `namespace`.
- [`spec`](#spec-property){: name='spec-property'} (object). KafkaACLSpec defines the desired state of KafkaACL. See below for [nested schema](#spec).

## spec {: #spec }

_Appears on [`KafkaACL`](#KafkaACL)._

KafkaACLSpec defines the desired state of KafkaACL.

**Required**

- [`permission`](#spec.permission-property){: name='spec.permission-property'} (string, Enum: `admin`, `read`, `readwrite`, `write`). Kafka permission to grant (admin, read, readwrite, write).
- [`project`](#spec.project-property){: name='spec.project-property'} (string, Immutable, MaxLength: 63, Format: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]+$`). Identifies the project this resource belongs to.
- [`serviceName`](#spec.serviceName-property){: name='spec.serviceName-property'} (string, Immutable, MaxLength: 63, Format: `^[a-z][-a-z0-9]+$`). Specifies the name of the service that this resource belongs to.
- [`topic`](#spec.topic-property){: name='spec.topic-property'} (string). Topic name pattern for the ACL entry.
- [`username`](#spec.username-property){: name='spec.username-property'} (string). Username pattern for the ACL entry.

**Optional**

- [`authSecretRef`](#spec.authSecretRef-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef-property'} (object). Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret. See below for [nested schema](#spec.authSecretRef).

## authSecretRef {: #spec.authSecretRef }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret.

**Required**

- [`key`](#spec.authSecretRef.key-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.key-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
- [`name`](#spec.authSecretRef.name-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
