docs/docs/api-reference/serviceuser.md, before:

---
title: "ServiceUser"
---

## Usage example

??? example 
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
    kind: ServiceUser
    metadata:
      name: my-service-user
    spec:
      authSecretRef:
        name: aiven-token
        key: token
    
      connInfoSecretTarget:
        name: service-user-secret
        prefix: MY_SECRET_PREFIX_
        annotations:
          foo: bar
        labels:
          baz: egg
    
      project: aiven-project-name
      serviceName: my-service-name
    ```

!!! info
	To create this resource, a `Secret` containing Aiven token must be [created](/aiven-operator/authentication.html) first.

Apply the resource with:

```shell
kubectl apply -f example.yaml
```

Verify the newly created `ServiceUser`:

```shell
kubectl get serviceusers my-service-user
```

The output is similar to the following:
```shell
Name               Service Name       Project               
my-service-user    my-service-name    aiven-project-name    
```

To view the details of the `Secret`, use the following command:
```shell
kubectl describe secret service-user-secret
```

You can use the [jq](https://github.com/jqlang/jq) to quickly decode the `Secret`:

```shell
kubectl get secret service-user-secret -o json | jq '.data | map_values(@base64d)'
```

The output is similar to the following:

```{ .json .no-copy }
{
	"SERVICEUSER_HOST": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_PORT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_USERNAME": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_PASSWORD": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_CA_CERT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_CERT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_KEY": "<secret>",
}
```

## ServiceUser {: #ServiceUser }

ServiceUser is the Schema for the serviceusers API.

!!! Info "Exposes secret keys"

    `SERVICEUSER_HOST`, `SERVICEUSER_PORT`, `SERVICEUSER_USERNAME`, `SERVICEUSER_PASSWORD`, `SERVICEUSER_CA_CERT`, `SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_CERT`, `SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_KEY`.

**Required**

- [`apiVersion`](#apiVersion-property){: name='apiVersion-property'} (string). Value `aiven.io/v1alpha1`.
- [`kind`](#kind-property){: name='kind-property'} (string). Value `ServiceUser`.
- [`metadata`](#metadata-property){: name='metadata-property'} (object). Data that identifies the object, including a `name` string and optional `namespace`.
- [`spec`](#spec-property){: name='spec-property'} (object). ServiceUserSpec defines the desired state of ServiceUser. See below for [nested schema](#spec).

## spec {: #spec }

_Appears on [`ServiceUser`](#ServiceUser)._

ServiceUserSpec defines the desired state of ServiceUser.

**Required**

- [`project`](#spec.project-property){: name='spec.project-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Identifies the project this resource belongs to.
- [`serviceName`](#spec.serviceName-property){: name='spec.serviceName-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-z][-a-z0-9]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Specifies the name of the service that this resource belongs to.

**Optional**

- [`authSecretRef`](#spec.authSecretRef-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef-property'} (object). Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret. See below for [nested schema](#spec.authSecretRef).
- [`authentication`](#spec.authentication-property){: name='spec.authentication-property'} (string, Enum: `caching_sha2_password`, `mysql_native_password`). Authentication details.
- [`connInfoSecretTarget`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property'} (object). Secret configuration. See below for [nested schema](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget).
- [`connInfoSecretTargetDisabled`](#spec.connInfoSecretTargetDisabled-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTargetDisabled-property'} (boolean, Immutable). When true, the secret containing connection information will not be created, defaults to false. This field cannot be changed after resource creation.

## authSecretRef {: #spec.authSecretRef }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret.

**Required**

- [`key`](#spec.authSecretRef.key-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.key-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
- [`name`](#spec.authSecretRef.name-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).

## connInfoSecretTarget {: #spec.connInfoSecretTarget }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Secret configuration.

**Required**

- [`name`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property'} (string, Immutable). Name of the secret resource to be created. By default, it is equal to the resource name.

**Optional**

- [`annotations`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Annotations added to the secret.
- [`labels`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Labels added to the secret.
- [`prefix`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property'} (string). Prefix for the secret's keys.
Added "as is" without any transformations.
By default, is equal to the kind name in uppercase + underscore, e.g. `KAFKA_`, `REDIS_`, etc.

Commit message:

docs: generate Prerequisites block
Generates Prerequisites block in "Usage example" section

docs/docs/api-reference/serviceuser.md, after:

---
title: "ServiceUser"
---

## Usage example

!!! note "Prerequisites"
	* A Kubernetes cluster with the operator installed using [helm](../installation/helm.md), [kubectl](../installation/kubectl.md) or [kind](../contributing/developer-guide.md) (for local development).
	* A Kubernetes [Secret](../authentication.md) with an Aiven authentication token.

??? example 
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
    kind: ServiceUser
    metadata:
      name: my-service-user
    spec:
      authSecretRef:
        name: aiven-token
        key: token
    
      connInfoSecretTarget:
        name: service-user-secret
        prefix: MY_SECRET_PREFIX_
        annotations:
          foo: bar
        labels:
          baz: egg
    
      project: aiven-project-name
      serviceName: my-service-name
    ```

Apply the resource with:

```shell
kubectl apply -f example.yaml
```

Verify the newly created `ServiceUser`:

```shell
kubectl get serviceusers my-service-user
```

The output is similar to the following:
```shell
Name               Service Name       Project               
my-service-user    my-service-name    aiven-project-name    
```

To view the details of the `Secret`, use the following command:
```shell
kubectl describe secret service-user-secret
```

You can use the [jq](https://github.com/jqlang/jq) to quickly decode the `Secret`:

```shell
kubectl get secret service-user-secret -o json | jq '.data | map_values(@base64d)'
```

The output is similar to the following:

```{ .json .no-copy }
{
	"SERVICEUSER_HOST": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_PORT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_USERNAME": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_PASSWORD": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_CA_CERT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_CERT": "<secret>",
	"SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_KEY": "<secret>",
}
```

## ServiceUser {: #ServiceUser }

ServiceUser is the Schema for the serviceusers API.

!!! Info "Exposes secret keys"

    `SERVICEUSER_HOST`, `SERVICEUSER_PORT`, `SERVICEUSER_USERNAME`, `SERVICEUSER_PASSWORD`, `SERVICEUSER_CA_CERT`, `SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_CERT`, `SERVICEUSER_ACCESS_KEY`.

**Required**

- [`apiVersion`](#apiVersion-property){: name='apiVersion-property'} (string). Value `aiven.io/v1alpha1`.
- [`kind`](#kind-property){: name='kind-property'} (string). Value `ServiceUser`.
- [`metadata`](#metadata-property){: name='metadata-property'} (object). Data that identifies the object, including a `name` string and optional `namespace`.
- [`spec`](#spec-property){: name='spec-property'} (object). ServiceUserSpec defines the desired state of ServiceUser. See below for [nested schema](#spec).

## spec {: #spec }

_Appears on [`ServiceUser`](#ServiceUser)._

ServiceUserSpec defines the desired state of ServiceUser.

**Required**

- [`project`](#spec.project-property){: name='spec.project-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Identifies the project this resource belongs to.
- [`serviceName`](#spec.serviceName-property){: name='spec.serviceName-property'} (string, Immutable, Pattern: `^[a-z][-a-z0-9]+$`, MaxLength: 63). Specifies the name of the service that this resource belongs to.

**Optional**

- [`authSecretRef`](#spec.authSecretRef-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef-property'} (object). Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret. See below for [nested schema](#spec.authSecretRef).
- [`authentication`](#spec.authentication-property){: name='spec.authentication-property'} (string, Enum: `caching_sha2_password`, `mysql_native_password`). Authentication details.
- [`connInfoSecretTarget`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget-property'} (object). Secret configuration. See below for [nested schema](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget).
- [`connInfoSecretTargetDisabled`](#spec.connInfoSecretTargetDisabled-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTargetDisabled-property'} (boolean, Immutable). When true, the secret containing connection information will not be created, defaults to false. This field cannot be changed after resource creation.

## authSecretRef {: #spec.authSecretRef }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Authentication reference to Aiven token in a secret.

**Required**

- [`key`](#spec.authSecretRef.key-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.key-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).
- [`name`](#spec.authSecretRef.name-property){: name='spec.authSecretRef.name-property'} (string, MinLength: 1).

## connInfoSecretTarget {: #spec.connInfoSecretTarget }

_Appears on [`spec`](#spec)._

Secret configuration.

**Required**

- [`name`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.name-property'} (string, Immutable). Name of the secret resource to be created. By default, it is equal to the resource name.

**Optional**

- [`annotations`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.annotations-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Annotations added to the secret.
- [`labels`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.labels-property'} (object, AdditionalProperties: string). Labels added to the secret.
- [`prefix`](#spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property){: name='spec.connInfoSecretTarget.prefix-property'} (string). Prefix for the secret's keys.
Added "as is" without any transformations.
By default, is equal to the kind name in uppercase + underscore, e.g. `KAFKA_`, `REDIS_`, etc.
