docs/content/en/docs/resources/redis/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Redis"
linkTitle: "Redis"
weight: 50
---

Aiven for Redis®* is a fully managed in-memory NoSQL database that you can deploy in the cloud of your choice to store and access data quickly and efficiently.

> Before going through this guide, make sure you have a [Kubernetes cluster](../../installation/prerequisites/) with the [operator installed](../../installation/) and a [Kubernetes Secret with an Aiven authentication token](../../authentication/).

## Creating a Redis instance

1. Create a file named `redis-sample.yaml`, and add the following content: 

```yaml
apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
kind: Redis
metadata:
  name: redis-sample
spec:
  # gets the authentication token from the `aiven-token` Secret
  authSecretRef:
    name: aiven-token
    key: token

  # outputs the Redis connection on the `redis-secret` Secret
  connInfoSecretTarget:
    name: redis-secret

  # add your Project name here
  project: <your-project-name>

  # cloud provider and plan of your choice
  # you can check all of the possibilities here https://aiven.io/pricing
  cloudName: google-europe-west1
  plan: startup-4

  # general Aiven configuration
  maintenanceWindowDow: friday
  maintenanceWindowTime: 23:00:00

  # specific Redis configuration
  userConfig:
    redis_maxmemory_policy: "allkeys-random"
```

2. Create the service by applying the configuration:

```bash
$ kubectl apply -f redis-sample.yaml 
```

3. Review the resource you created with this command:

```bash
$ kubectl get redis.aiven.io redis-sample
```

The output is similar to the following:

```bash
NAME           PROJECT          REGION                PLAN        STATE
redis-sample   <your-project>   google-europe-west1   startup-4   RUNNING
```

The resource will be in the `BUILDING` state for a few minutes. Once the state changes to `RUNNING`, you can access the resource.


## Using the connection Secret

For your convenience, the operator automatically stores the Redis connection information in a Secret created with the
name specified on the `connInfoSecretTarget` field.

To view the details of the Secret, use the following command:

```bash
$ kubectl describe secret redis-secret 
```

The output is similar to the following:

```bash
Name:         redis-secret
Namespace:    default
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>

Type:  Opaque

Data
====
SSL:       8 bytes
USER:      7 bytes
HOST:      60 bytes
PASSWORD:  24 bytes
PORT:      5 bytes
```

You can use the [jq](https://github.com/stedolan/jq) to quickly decode the Secret:

```bash
$ kubectl get secret redis-secret -o json | jq '.data | map_values(@base64d)'
```

The output is similar to the following:

```bash
{
  "HOST": "redis-sample-your-project.aivencloud.com",
  "PASSWORD": "<secret-password>",
  "PORT": "14610",
  "SSL": "required",
  "USER": "default"
}
```

Commit message:

replace get command with describe

docs/content/en/docs/resources/redis/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Redis"
linkTitle: "Redis"
weight: 50
---

Aiven for Redis®* is a fully managed in-memory NoSQL database that you can deploy in the cloud of your choice to store and access data quickly and efficiently.

> Before going through this guide, make sure you have a [Kubernetes cluster](../../installation/prerequisites/) with the [operator installed](../../installation/) and a [Kubernetes Secret with an Aiven authentication token](../../authentication/).

## Creating a Redis instance

1. Create a file named `redis-sample.yaml`, and add the following content: 

```yaml
apiVersion: aiven.io/v1alpha1
kind: Redis
metadata:
  name: redis-sample
spec:
  # gets the authentication token from the `aiven-token` Secret
  authSecretRef:
    name: aiven-token
    key: token

  # outputs the Redis connection on the `redis-secret` Secret
  connInfoSecretTarget:
    name: redis-secret

  # add your Project name here
  project: <your-project-name>

  # cloud provider and plan of your choice
  # you can check all of the possibilities here https://aiven.io/pricing
  cloudName: google-europe-west1
  plan: startup-4

  # general Aiven configuration
  maintenanceWindowDow: friday
  maintenanceWindowTime: 23:00:00

  # specific Redis configuration
  userConfig:
    redis_maxmemory_policy: "allkeys-random"
```

2. Create the service by applying the configuration:

```bash
$ kubectl apply -f redis-sample.yaml 
```

3. Review the resource you created with this command:

```bash
$ kubectl describe redis.aiven.io redis-sample
```

The output is similar to the following:

```bash
...
Status:
  Conditions:
    Last Transition Time:  2023-01-19T14:48:59Z
    Message:               Instance was created or update on Aiven side
    Reason:                Created
    Status:                True
    Type:                  Initialized
    Last Transition Time:  2023-01-19T14:48:59Z
    Message:               Instance was created or update on Aiven side, status remains unknown
    Reason:                Created
    Status:                Unknown
    Type:                  Running
  State:                   REBUILDING
...
```

The resource will be in the `REBUILDING` state for a few minutes. Once the state changes to `RUNNING`, you can access the resource.


## Using the connection Secret

For your convenience, the operator automatically stores the Redis connection information in a Secret created with the
name specified on the `connInfoSecretTarget` field.

To view the details of the Secret, use the following command:

```bash
$ kubectl describe secret redis-secret 
```

The output is similar to the following:

```bash
Name:         redis-secret
Namespace:    default
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>

Type:  Opaque

Data
====
SSL:       8 bytes
USER:      7 bytes
HOST:      60 bytes
PASSWORD:  24 bytes
PORT:      5 bytes
```

You can use the [jq](https://github.com/stedolan/jq) to quickly decode the Secret:

```bash
$ kubectl get secret redis-secret -o json | jq '.data | map_values(@base64d)'
```

The output is similar to the following:

```bash
{
  "HOST": "redis-sample-your-project.aivencloud.com",
  "PASSWORD": "<secret-password>",
  "PORT": "14610",
  "SSL": "required",
  "USER": "default"
}
```
